apps/docs/content/docs/tools/microsoft_teams.mdx, before:

---
title: Microsoft Teams
description: Read, write, and create messages
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="microsoft_teams"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 2228.833 2073.333'>
      <path
        fill='#5059C9'
        d='M1554.637,777.5h575.713c54.391,0,98.483,44.092,98.483,98.483c0,0,0,0,0,0v524.398 c0,199.901-162.051,361.952-361.952,361.952h0h-1.711c-199.901,0.028-361.975-162-362.004-361.901c0-0.017,0-0.034,0-0.052V828.971 C1503.167,800.544,1526.211,777.5,1554.637,777.5L1554.637,777.5z'
      />
      <circle fill='#5059C9' cx='1943.75' cy='440.583' r='233.25' />
      <circle fill='#7B83EB' cx='1218.083' cy='336.917' r='336.917' />
      <path
        fill='#7B83EB'
        d='M1667.323,777.5H717.01c-53.743,1.33-96.257,45.931-95.01,99.676v598.105 c-7.505,322.519,247.657,590.16,570.167,598.053c322.51-7.893,577.671-275.534,570.167-598.053V877.176 C1763.579,823.431,1721.066,778.83,1667.323,777.5z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.1'
        d='M1244,777.5v838.145c-0.258,38.435-23.549,72.964-59.09,87.598 c-11.316,4.787-23.478,7.254-35.765,7.257H667.613c-6.738-17.105-12.958-34.21-18.142-51.833 c-18.144-59.477-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1244z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,777.5v889.978c-0.002,12.287-2.47,24.449-7.257,35.765 c-14.634,35.541-49.163,58.833-87.598,59.09H691.975c-8.812-17.105-17.105-34.21-24.362-51.833 c-7.257-17.623-12.958-34.21-18.142-51.833c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02 c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1192.167z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,777.5v786.312c-0.395,52.223-42.632,94.46-94.855,94.855h-447.84 c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1192.167z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1140.333,777.5v786.312c-0.395,52.223-42.632,94.46-94.855,94.855H649.472 c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1140.333z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.1'
        d='M1244,509.522v163.275c-8.812,0.518-17.105,1.037-25.917,1.037 c-8.812,0-17.105-0.518-25.917-1.037c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003 c-7.153-16.715-12.706-34.071-16.587-51.833h258.648C1201.449,414.866,1243.801,457.217,1244,509.522z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,561.355v111.442c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293 c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003h190.228C1149.616,466.699,1191.968,509.051,1192.167,561.355z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,561.355v111.442c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293 c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003h190.228C1149.616,466.699,1191.968,509.051,1192.167,561.355z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1140.333,561.355v103.148c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003 h138.395C1097.783,466.699,1140.134,509.051,1140.333,561.355z'
      />
      <linearGradient
        id='a'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='198.099'
        y1='1683.0726'
        x2='942.2344'
        y2='394.2607'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 2075.3333)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' stopColor='#5a62c3' />
        <stop offset='.5' stopColor='#4d55bd' />
        <stop offset='1' stopColor='#3940ab' />
        <stop offset='0' stopColor='#5a62c3' />
        <stop offset='.5' stopColor='#4d55bd' />
        <stop offset='1' stopColor='#3940ab' />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#a)'
        d='M95.01,466.5h950.312c52.473,0,95.01,42.538,95.01,95.01v950.312c0,52.473-42.538,95.01-95.01,95.01 H95.01c-52.473,0-95.01-42.538-95.01-95.01V561.51C0,509.038,42.538,466.5,95.01,466.5z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#FFF'
        d='M820.211,828.193H630.241v517.297H509.211V828.193H320.123V727.844h500.088V828.193z'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com) is a robust communication and collaboration platform that enables users to engage in real-time messaging, meetings, and content sharing within teams and organizations. As part of Microsoft's productivity ecosystem, Microsoft Teams offers seamless chat functionality integrated with Office 365, allowing users to post messages, coordinate work, and stay connected across devices and workflows.

With Microsoft Teams, you can:

- **Send and receive messages**: Communicate instantly with individuals or groups in chat threads  
- **Collaborate in real-time**: Share updates and information across teams within channels and chats  
- **Organize conversations**: Maintain context with threaded discussions and persistent chat history  
- **Share files and content**: Attach and view documents, images, and links directly in chat  
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Seamlessly connect with Outlook, SharePoint, OneDrive, and more  
- **Access across devices**: Use Teams on desktop, web, and mobile with cloud-synced conversations  
- **Secure communication**: Leverage enterprise-grade security and compliance features

In Sim, the Microsoft Teams integration enables your agents to interact directly with chat messages programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as sending updates, posting alerts, coordinating tasks, and responding to conversations in real time. Your agents can write new messages to chats or channels, update content based on workflow data, and engage with users where collaboration happens. By integrating Sim with Microsoft Teams, you bridge the gap between intelligent workflows and team communication — empowering your agents to streamline collaboration, automate communication tasks, and keep your teams aligned.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Microsoft Teams functionality to manage messages. Read content from existing messages and write to messages using OAuth authentication. Supports text content manipulation for message creation and editing.



## Tools

### `microsoft_teams_read_chat`

Read content from a Microsoft Teams chat

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the Microsoft Teams API |
| `chatId` | string | Yes | The ID of the chat to read from |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `content` | string | Message content |
| `metadata` | json | Message metadata |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Content update status |

### `microsoft_teams_write_chat`

Write or update content in a Microsoft Teams chat

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the Microsoft Teams API |
| `chatId` | string | Yes | The ID of the chat to write to |
| `content` | string | Yes | The content to write to the message |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `content` | string | Message content |
| `metadata` | json | Message metadata |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Content update status |

### `microsoft_teams_read_channel`

Read content from a Microsoft Teams channel

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the Microsoft Teams API |
| `teamId` | string | Yes | The ID of the team to read from |
| `channelId` | string | Yes | The ID of the channel to read from |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `content` | string | Message content |
| `metadata` | json | Message metadata |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Content update status |

### `microsoft_teams_write_channel`

Write or send a message to a Microsoft Teams channel

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the Microsoft Teams API |
| `teamId` | string | Yes | The ID of the team to write to |
| `channelId` | string | Yes | The ID of the channel to write to |
| `content` | string | Yes | The content to write to the channel |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `content` | string | Message content |
| `metadata` | json | Message metadata |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Content update status |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `microsoft_teams`

Commit message:

add types to tag dropdown, type all outputs for tools and use that over block outputs

apps/docs/content/docs/tools/microsoft_teams.mdx, after:

---
title: Microsoft Teams
description: Read, write, and create messages
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="microsoft_teams"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 2228.833 2073.333'>
      <path
        fill='#5059C9'
        d='M1554.637,777.5h575.713c54.391,0,98.483,44.092,98.483,98.483c0,0,0,0,0,0v524.398 c0,199.901-162.051,361.952-361.952,361.952h0h-1.711c-199.901,0.028-361.975-162-362.004-361.901c0-0.017,0-0.034,0-0.052V828.971 C1503.167,800.544,1526.211,777.5,1554.637,777.5L1554.637,777.5z'
      />
      <circle fill='#5059C9' cx='1943.75' cy='440.583' r='233.25' />
      <circle fill='#7B83EB' cx='1218.083' cy='336.917' r='336.917' />
      <path
        fill='#7B83EB'
        d='M1667.323,777.5H717.01c-53.743,1.33-96.257,45.931-95.01,99.676v598.105 c-7.505,322.519,247.657,590.16,570.167,598.053c322.51-7.893,577.671-275.534,570.167-598.053V877.176 C1763.579,823.431,1721.066,778.83,1667.323,777.5z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.1'
        d='M1244,777.5v838.145c-0.258,38.435-23.549,72.964-59.09,87.598 c-11.316,4.787-23.478,7.254-35.765,7.257H667.613c-6.738-17.105-12.958-34.21-18.142-51.833 c-18.144-59.477-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1244z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,777.5v889.978c-0.002,12.287-2.47,24.449-7.257,35.765 c-14.634,35.541-49.163,58.833-87.598,59.09H691.975c-8.812-17.105-17.105-34.21-24.362-51.833 c-7.257-17.623-12.958-34.21-18.142-51.833c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02 c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1192.167z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,777.5v786.312c-0.395,52.223-42.632,94.46-94.855,94.855h-447.84 c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1192.167z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1140.333,777.5v786.312c-0.395,52.223-42.632,94.46-94.855,94.855H649.472 c-18.144-59.476-27.402-121.307-27.472-183.49V877.02c-1.246-53.659,41.198-98.19,94.855-99.52H1140.333z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.1'
        d='M1244,509.522v163.275c-8.812,0.518-17.105,1.037-25.917,1.037 c-8.812,0-17.105-0.518-25.917-1.037c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003 c-7.153-16.715-12.706-34.071-16.587-51.833h258.648C1201.449,414.866,1243.801,457.217,1244,509.522z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,561.355v111.442c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293 c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003h190.228C1149.616,466.699,1191.968,509.051,1192.167,561.355z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1192.167,561.355v111.442c-17.496-1.161-34.848-3.937-51.833-8.293 c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003h190.228C1149.616,466.699,1191.968,509.051,1192.167,561.355z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='.2'
        d='M1140.333,561.355v103.148c-104.963-24.857-191.679-98.469-233.25-198.003 h138.395C1097.783,466.699,1140.134,509.051,1140.333,561.355z'
      />
      <linearGradient
        id='a'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='198.099'
        y1='1683.0726'
        x2='942.2344'
        y2='394.2607'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 2075.3333)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' stopColor='#5a62c3' />
        <stop offset='.5' stopColor='#4d55bd' />
        <stop offset='1' stopColor='#3940ab' />
        <stop offset='0' stopColor='#5a62c3' />
        <stop offset='.5' stopColor='#4d55bd' />
        <stop offset='1' stopColor='#3940ab' />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#a)'
        d='M95.01,466.5h950.312c52.473,0,95.01,42.538,95.01,95.01v950.312c0,52.473-42.538,95.01-95.01,95.01 H95.01c-52.473,0-95.01-42.538-95.01-95.01V561.51C0,509.038,42.538,466.5,95.01,466.5z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#FFF'
        d='M820.211,828.193H630.241v517.297H509.211V828.193H320.123V727.844h500.088V828.193z'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Microsoft Teams](https://teams.microsoft.com) is a robust communication and collaboration platform that enables users to engage in real-time messaging, meetings, and content sharing within teams and organizations. As part of Microsoft's productivity ecosystem, Microsoft Teams offers seamless chat functionality integrated with Office 365, allowing users to post messages, coordinate work, and stay connected across devices and workflows.

With Microsoft Teams, you can:

- **Send and receive messages**: Communicate instantly with individuals or groups in chat threads  
- **Collaborate in real-time**: Share updates and information across teams within channels and chats  
- **Organize conversations**: Maintain context with threaded discussions and persistent chat history  
- **Share files and content**: Attach and view documents, images, and links directly in chat  
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Seamlessly connect with Outlook, SharePoint, OneDrive, and more  
- **Access across devices**: Use Teams on desktop, web, and mobile with cloud-synced conversations  
- **Secure communication**: Leverage enterprise-grade security and compliance features

In Sim, the Microsoft Teams integration enables your agents to interact directly with chat messages programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as sending updates, posting alerts, coordinating tasks, and responding to conversations in real time. Your agents can write new messages to chats or channels, update content based on workflow data, and engage with users where collaboration happens. By integrating Sim with Microsoft Teams, you bridge the gap between intelligent workflows and team communication — empowering your agents to streamline collaboration, automate communication tasks, and keep your teams aligned.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Microsoft Teams functionality to manage messages. Read content from existing messages and write to messages using OAuth authentication. Supports text content manipulation for message creation and editing.



## Tools

### `microsoft_teams_read_chat`

Read content from a Microsoft Teams chat

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `chatId` | string | Yes | The ID of the chat to read from |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Teams chat read operation success status |
| `messageCount` | number | Number of messages retrieved from chat |
| `chatId` | string | ID of the chat that was read from |
| `messages` | array | Array of chat message objects |
| `attachmentCount` | number | Total number of attachments found |
| `attachmentTypes` | array | Types of attachments found |
| `content` | string | Formatted content of chat messages |

### `microsoft_teams_write_chat`

Write or update content in a Microsoft Teams chat

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `chatId` | string | Yes | The ID of the chat to write to |
| `content` | string | Yes | The content to write to the message |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Teams chat message send success status |
| `messageId` | string | Unique identifier for the sent message |
| `chatId` | string | ID of the chat where message was sent |
| `createdTime` | string | Timestamp when message was created |
| `url` | string | Web URL to the message |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Whether content was successfully updated |

### `microsoft_teams_read_channel`

Read content from a Microsoft Teams channel

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `teamId` | string | Yes | The ID of the team to read from |
| `channelId` | string | Yes | The ID of the channel to read from |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Teams channel read operation success status |
| `messageCount` | number | Number of messages retrieved from channel |
| `teamId` | string | ID of the team that was read from |
| `channelId` | string | ID of the channel that was read from |
| `messages` | array | Array of channel message objects |
| `attachmentCount` | number | Total number of attachments found |
| `attachmentTypes` | array | Types of attachments found |
| `content` | string | Formatted content of channel messages |

### `microsoft_teams_write_channel`

Write or send a message to a Microsoft Teams channel

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `teamId` | string | Yes | The ID of the team to write to |
| `channelId` | string | Yes | The ID of the channel to write to |
| `content` | string | Yes | The content to write to the channel |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Teams channel message send success status |
| `messageId` | string | Unique identifier for the sent message |
| `teamId` | string | ID of the team where message was sent |
| `channelId` | string | ID of the channel where message was sent |
| `createdTime` | string | Timestamp when message was created |
| `url` | string | Web URL to the message |
| `updatedContent` | boolean | Whether content was successfully updated |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `microsoft_teams`
