apps/docs/content/docs/tools/mysql.mdx, before:

---
title: MySQL
description: Connect to MySQL database
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="mysql"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      
      
      viewBox='0 0 25.6 25.6'
    >
      <path
        d='M179.076 94.886c-3.568-.1-6.336.268-8.656 1.25-.668.27-1.74.27-1.828 1.116.357.355.4.936.713 1.428.535.893 1.473 2.096 2.32 2.72l2.855 2.053c1.74 1.07 3.703 1.695 5.398 2.766.982.625 1.963 1.428 2.945 2.098.5.357.803.938 1.428 1.16v-.135c-.312-.4-.402-.98-.713-1.428l-1.34-1.293c-1.293-1.74-2.9-3.258-4.64-4.506-1.428-.982-4.55-2.32-5.13-3.97l-.088-.1c.98-.1 2.14-.447 3.078-.715 1.518-.4 2.9-.312 4.46-.713l2.143-.625v-.4c-.803-.803-1.383-1.874-2.23-2.632-2.275-1.963-4.775-3.882-7.363-5.488-1.383-.892-3.168-1.473-4.64-2.23-.537-.268-1.428-.402-1.74-.848-.805-.98-1.25-2.275-1.83-3.436l-3.658-7.763c-.803-1.74-1.295-3.48-2.275-5.086-4.596-7.585-9.594-12.18-17.268-16.687-1.65-.937-3.613-1.34-5.7-1.83l-3.346-.18c-.715-.312-1.428-1.16-2.053-1.562-2.543-1.606-9.102-5.086-10.977-.5-1.205 2.9 1.785 5.755 2.8 7.228.76 1.026 1.74 2.186 2.277 3.346.3.758.4 1.562.713 2.365.713 1.963 1.383 4.15 2.32 5.98.5.937 1.025 1.92 1.65 2.767.357.5.982.714 1.115 1.517-.625.893-.668 2.23-1.025 3.347-1.607 5.042-.982 11.288 1.293 15 .715 1.115 2.4 3.57 4.686 2.632 2.008-.803 1.56-3.346 2.14-5.577.135-.535.045-.892.312-1.25v.1l1.83 3.703c1.383 2.186 3.793 4.462 5.8 5.98 1.07.803 1.918 2.187 3.256 2.677v-.135h-.088c-.268-.4-.67-.58-1.027-.892-.803-.803-1.695-1.785-2.32-2.677-1.873-2.498-3.523-5.265-4.996-8.12-.715-1.383-1.34-2.9-1.918-4.283-.27-.536-.27-1.34-.715-1.606-.67.98-1.65 1.83-2.143 3.034-.848 1.918-.936 4.283-1.248 6.737-.18.045-.1 0-.18.1-1.426-.356-1.918-1.83-2.453-3.078-1.338-3.168-1.562-8.254-.402-11.913.312-.937 1.652-3.882 1.117-4.774-.27-.848-1.16-1.338-1.652-2.008-.58-.848-1.203-1.918-1.605-2.855-1.07-2.5-1.605-5.265-2.766-7.764-.537-1.16-1.473-2.365-2.232-3.435-.848-1.205-1.783-2.053-2.453-3.48-.223-.5-.535-1.294-.178-1.83.088-.357.268-.5.623-.58.58-.5 2.232.134 2.812.4 1.65.67 3.033 1.294 4.416 2.23.625.446 1.295 1.294 2.098 1.518h.938c1.428.312 3.033.1 4.37.5 2.365.76 4.506 1.874 6.426 3.08 5.844 3.703 10.664 8.968 13.92 15.26.535 1.026.758 1.963 1.25 3.034.938 2.187 2.098 4.417 3.033 6.56.938 2.097 1.83 4.24 3.168 5.98.67.937 3.346 1.427 4.55 1.918.893.4 2.275.76 3.08 1.25 1.516.937 3.033 2.008 4.46 3.034.713.534 2.945 1.65 3.078 2.54zm-45.5-38.772a7.09 7.09 0 0 0-1.828.223v.1h.088c.357.714.982 1.205 1.428 1.83l1.027 2.142.088-.1c.625-.446.938-1.16.938-2.23-.268-.312-.312-.625-.535-.937-.268-.446-.848-.67-1.206-1.026z'
        transform='matrix(.390229 0 0 .38781 -46.300037 -16.856717)'
        fill-rule='evenodd'
        fill='#00678c'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

## Usage Instructions

Connect to any MySQL database to execute queries, manage data, and perform database operations. Supports SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE operations with secure connection handling.



## Tools

### `mysql_query`

Execute SELECT query on MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `query` | string | Yes | SQL SELECT query to execute |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of rows returned from the query |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows returned |

### `mysql_insert`

Insert new record into MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to insert into |
| `data` | object | Yes | Data to insert as key-value pairs |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of inserted rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows inserted |

### `mysql_update`

Update existing records in MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to update |
| `data` | object | Yes | Data to update as key-value pairs |
| `where` | string | Yes | WHERE clause condition \(without WHERE keyword\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of updated rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows updated |

### `mysql_delete`

Delete records from MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to delete from |
| `where` | string | Yes | WHERE clause condition \(without WHERE keyword\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of deleted rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows deleted |

### `mysql_execute`

Execute raw SQL query on MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `query` | string | Yes | Raw SQL query to execute |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of rows returned from the query |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows affected |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `mysql`

Commit message:

enrich docs for Postgres and MySQL

apps/docs/content/docs/tools/mysql.mdx, after:

---
title: MySQL
description: Connect to MySQL database
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="mysql"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      
      
      viewBox='0 0 25.6 25.6'
    >
      <path
        d='M179.076 94.886c-3.568-.1-6.336.268-8.656 1.25-.668.27-1.74.27-1.828 1.116.357.355.4.936.713 1.428.535.893 1.473 2.096 2.32 2.72l2.855 2.053c1.74 1.07 3.703 1.695 5.398 2.766.982.625 1.963 1.428 2.945 2.098.5.357.803.938 1.428 1.16v-.135c-.312-.4-.402-.98-.713-1.428l-1.34-1.293c-1.293-1.74-2.9-3.258-4.64-4.506-1.428-.982-4.55-2.32-5.13-3.97l-.088-.1c.98-.1 2.14-.447 3.078-.715 1.518-.4 2.9-.312 4.46-.713l2.143-.625v-.4c-.803-.803-1.383-1.874-2.23-2.632-2.275-1.963-4.775-3.882-7.363-5.488-1.383-.892-3.168-1.473-4.64-2.23-.537-.268-1.428-.402-1.74-.848-.805-.98-1.25-2.275-1.83-3.436l-3.658-7.763c-.803-1.74-1.295-3.48-2.275-5.086-4.596-7.585-9.594-12.18-17.268-16.687-1.65-.937-3.613-1.34-5.7-1.83l-3.346-.18c-.715-.312-1.428-1.16-2.053-1.562-2.543-1.606-9.102-5.086-10.977-.5-1.205 2.9 1.785 5.755 2.8 7.228.76 1.026 1.74 2.186 2.277 3.346.3.758.4 1.562.713 2.365.713 1.963 1.383 4.15 2.32 5.98.5.937 1.025 1.92 1.65 2.767.357.5.982.714 1.115 1.517-.625.893-.668 2.23-1.025 3.347-1.607 5.042-.982 11.288 1.293 15 .715 1.115 2.4 3.57 4.686 2.632 2.008-.803 1.56-3.346 2.14-5.577.135-.535.045-.892.312-1.25v.1l1.83 3.703c1.383 2.186 3.793 4.462 5.8 5.98 1.07.803 1.918 2.187 3.256 2.677v-.135h-.088c-.268-.4-.67-.58-1.027-.892-.803-.803-1.695-1.785-2.32-2.677-1.873-2.498-3.523-5.265-4.996-8.12-.715-1.383-1.34-2.9-1.918-4.283-.27-.536-.27-1.34-.715-1.606-.67.98-1.65 1.83-2.143 3.034-.848 1.918-.936 4.283-1.248 6.737-.18.045-.1 0-.18.1-1.426-.356-1.918-1.83-2.453-3.078-1.338-3.168-1.562-8.254-.402-11.913.312-.937 1.652-3.882 1.117-4.774-.27-.848-1.16-1.338-1.652-2.008-.58-.848-1.203-1.918-1.605-2.855-1.07-2.5-1.605-5.265-2.766-7.764-.537-1.16-1.473-2.365-2.232-3.435-.848-1.205-1.783-2.053-2.453-3.48-.223-.5-.535-1.294-.178-1.83.088-.357.268-.5.623-.58.58-.5 2.232.134 2.812.4 1.65.67 3.033 1.294 4.416 2.23.625.446 1.295 1.294 2.098 1.518h.938c1.428.312 3.033.1 4.37.5 2.365.76 4.506 1.874 6.426 3.08 5.844 3.703 10.664 8.968 13.92 15.26.535 1.026.758 1.963 1.25 3.034.938 2.187 2.098 4.417 3.033 6.56.938 2.097 1.83 4.24 3.168 5.98.67.937 3.346 1.427 4.55 1.918.893.4 2.275.76 3.08 1.25 1.516.937 3.033 2.008 4.46 3.034.713.534 2.945 1.65 3.078 2.54zm-45.5-38.772a7.09 7.09 0 0 0-1.828.223v.1h.088c.357.714.982 1.205 1.428 1.83l1.027 2.142.088-.1c.625-.446.938-1.16.938-2.23-.268-.312-.312-.625-.535-.937-.268-.446-.848-.67-1.206-1.026z'
        transform='matrix(.390229 0 0 .38781 -46.300037 -16.856717)'
        fill-rule='evenodd'
        fill='#00678c'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
The [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) tool enables you to connect to any MySQL database and perform a wide range of database operations directly within your agentic workflows. With secure connection handling and flexible configuration, you can easily manage and interact with your data.

With the MySQL tool, you can:

- **Query data**: Execute SELECT queries to retrieve data from your MySQL tables using the `mysql_query` operation.
- **Insert records**: Add new rows to your tables with the `mysql_insert` operation by specifying the table and data to insert.
- **Update records**: Modify existing data in your tables using the `mysql_update` operation, providing the table, new data, and WHERE conditions.
- **Delete records**: Remove rows from your tables with the `mysql_delete` operation, specifying the table and WHERE conditions.
- **Execute raw SQL**: Run any custom SQL command using the `mysql_execute` operation for advanced use cases.

The MySQL tool is ideal for scenarios where your agents need to interact with structured data—such as automating reporting, syncing data between systems, or powering data-driven workflows. It streamlines database access, making it easy to read, write, and manage your MySQL data programmatically.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}

## Usage Instructions

Connect to any MySQL database to execute queries, manage data, and perform database operations. Supports SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE operations with secure connection handling.



## Tools

### `mysql_query`

Execute SELECT query on MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `query` | string | Yes | SQL SELECT query to execute |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of rows returned from the query |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows returned |

### `mysql_insert`

Insert new record into MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to insert into |
| `data` | object | Yes | Data to insert as key-value pairs |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of inserted rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows inserted |

### `mysql_update`

Update existing records in MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to update |
| `data` | object | Yes | Data to update as key-value pairs |
| `where` | string | Yes | WHERE clause condition \(without WHERE keyword\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of updated rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows updated |

### `mysql_delete`

Delete records from MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `table` | string | Yes | Table name to delete from |
| `where` | string | Yes | WHERE clause condition \(without WHERE keyword\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of deleted rows |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows deleted |

### `mysql_execute`

Execute raw SQL query on MySQL database

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `host` | string | Yes | MySQL server hostname or IP address |
| `port` | number | Yes | MySQL server port \(default: 3306\) |
| `database` | string | Yes | Database name to connect to |
| `username` | string | Yes | Database username |
| `password` | string | Yes | Database password |
| `ssl` | string | No | SSL connection mode \(disabled, required, preferred\) |
| `query` | string | Yes | Raw SQL query to execute |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Operation status message |
| `rows` | array | Array of rows returned from the query |
| `rowCount` | number | Number of rows affected |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `mysql`
