apps/docs/content/docs/tools/onedrive.mdx, before:

---
title: OneDrive
description: Create, upload, and list files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="onedrive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  fill='currentColor' viewBox='0 0 32 32' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'>
      <g>
        <path
          d='M12.20245,11.19292l.00031-.0011,6.71765,4.02379,4.00293-1.68451.00018.00068A6.4768,6.4768,0,0,1,25.5,13c.14764,0,.29358.0067.43878.01639a10.00075,10.00075,0,0,0-18.041-3.01381C7.932,10.00215,7.9657,10,8,10A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,1,12.20245,11.19292Z'
          fill='#0364b8'
        />
        <path
          d='M12.20276,11.19182l-.00031.0011A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,0,8,10c-.0343,0-.06805.00215-.10223.00258A7.99676,7.99676,0,0,0,1.43732,22.57277l5.924-2.49292,2.63342-1.10819,5.86353-2.46746,3.06213-1.28859Z'
          fill='#0078d4'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.93878,13.01639C25.79358,13.0067,25.64764,13,25.5,13a6.4768,6.4768,0,0,0-2.57648.53178l-.00018-.00068-4.00293,1.68451,1.16077.69528L23.88611,18.19l1.66009.99438,5.67633,3.40007a6.5002,6.5002,0,0,0-5.28375-9.56805Z'
          fill='#1490df'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.5462,19.18437,23.88611,18.19l-3.80493-2.2791-1.16077-.69528L15.85828,16.5042,9.99475,18.97166,7.36133,20.07985l-5.924,2.49292A7.98889,7.98889,0,0,0,8,26H25.5a6.49837,6.49837,0,0,0,5.72253-3.41556Z'
          fill='#28a8ea'
        />
      </g>
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) is Microsoft’s cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to securely store, access, and share files across devices. Integrated deeply into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem, OneDrive supports seamless collaboration, version control, and real-time access to content across teams and organizations.

Learn how to integrate the OneDrive tool in Sim to automatically pull, manage, and organize your cloud files within your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting OneDrive, setting up file access, and using stored content to power automation. Ideal for syncing essential documents and media with your agents in real time.

With OneDrive, you can:

- **Store files securely in the cloud**: Upload and access documents, images, and other files from any device
- **Organize your content**: Create structured folders and manage file versions with ease
- **Collaborate in real time**: Share files, edit them simultaneously with others, and track changes
- **Access across devices**: Use OneDrive from desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams
- **Control permissions**: Share files and folders with custom access settings and expiration controls

In Sim, the OneDrive integration enables your agents to directly interact with your cloud storage. Agents can upload new files to specific folders, retrieve and read existing files, and list folder contents to dynamically organize and access information. This integration allows your agents to incorporate file operations into intelligent workflows — automating document intake, content analysis, and structured storage management. By connecting Sim with OneDrive, you empower your agents to manage and use cloud documents programmatically, eliminating manual steps and enhancing automation with secure, real-time file access.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate OneDrive functionality to manage files and folders. Upload new files, create new folders, and list contents of folders using OAuth authentication. Supports file operations with custom MIME types and folder organization.



## Tools

### `onedrive_upload`

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |

### `onedrive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the OneDrive API |
| `folderName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `folderId` | string | No | ID of the parent folder \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |

### `onedrive_list`

List files and folders in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the OneDrive API |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to list files from \(internal use\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `onedrive`

Commit message:

readded file upload and changed docs

apps/docs/content/docs/tools/onedrive.mdx, after:

---
title: OneDrive
description: Create, upload, and list files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="onedrive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  fill='currentColor' viewBox='0 0 32 32' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'>
      <g>
        <path
          d='M12.20245,11.19292l.00031-.0011,6.71765,4.02379,4.00293-1.68451.00018.00068A6.4768,6.4768,0,0,1,25.5,13c.14764,0,.29358.0067.43878.01639a10.00075,10.00075,0,0,0-18.041-3.01381C7.932,10.00215,7.9657,10,8,10A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,1,12.20245,11.19292Z'
          fill='#0364b8'
        />
        <path
          d='M12.20276,11.19182l-.00031.0011A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,0,8,10c-.0343,0-.06805.00215-.10223.00258A7.99676,7.99676,0,0,0,1.43732,22.57277l5.924-2.49292,2.63342-1.10819,5.86353-2.46746,3.06213-1.28859Z'
          fill='#0078d4'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.93878,13.01639C25.79358,13.0067,25.64764,13,25.5,13a6.4768,6.4768,0,0,0-2.57648.53178l-.00018-.00068-4.00293,1.68451,1.16077.69528L23.88611,18.19l1.66009.99438,5.67633,3.40007a6.5002,6.5002,0,0,0-5.28375-9.56805Z'
          fill='#1490df'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.5462,19.18437,23.88611,18.19l-3.80493-2.2791-1.16077-.69528L15.85828,16.5042,9.99475,18.97166,7.36133,20.07985l-5.924,2.49292A7.98889,7.98889,0,0,0,8,26H25.5a6.49837,6.49837,0,0,0,5.72253-3.41556Z'
          fill='#28a8ea'
        />
      </g>
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) is Microsoft’s cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to securely store, access, and share files across devices. Integrated deeply into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem, OneDrive supports seamless collaboration, version control, and real-time access to content across teams and organizations.

Learn how to integrate the OneDrive tool in Sim to automatically pull, manage, and organize your cloud files within your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting OneDrive, setting up file access, and using stored content to power automation. Ideal for syncing essential documents and media with your agents in real time.

With OneDrive, you can:

- **Store files securely in the cloud**: Upload and access documents, images, and other files from any device
- **Organize your content**: Create structured folders and manage file versions with ease
- **Collaborate in real time**: Share files, edit them simultaneously with others, and track changes
- **Access across devices**: Use OneDrive from desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams
- **Control permissions**: Share files and folders with custom access settings and expiration controls

In Sim, the OneDrive integration enables your agents to directly interact with your cloud storage. Agents can upload new files to specific folders, retrieve and read existing files, and list folder contents to dynamically organize and access information. This integration allows your agents to incorporate file operations into intelligent workflows — automating document intake, content analysis, and structured storage management. By connecting Sim with OneDrive, you empower your agents to manage and use cloud documents programmatically, eliminating manual steps and enhancing automation with secure, real-time file access.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate OneDrive functionality to manage files and folders. Upload new files, create new folders, and list contents of folders using OAuth authentication. Supports file operations with custom MIME types and folder organization.



## Tools

### `onedrive_upload`

Upload a file to OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the OneDrive API |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | The name of the file to upload |
| `content` | string | Yes | The content of the file to upload |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to upload the file to |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to upload the file to \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |

### `onedrive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the OneDrive API |
| `folderName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `folderId` | string | No | ID of the parent folder \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |

### `onedrive_list`

List files and folders in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `accessToken` | string | Yes | The access token for the OneDrive API |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to list files from \(internal use\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | The OneDrive file object, including details such as id, name, size, and more. |
| `files` | json | An array of OneDrive file objects, each containing details such as id, name, size, and more. |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `onedrive`
