apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/google_drive.mdx, before:

---
title: Google Drive
description: Create, upload, and list files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="google_drive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      viewBox='0 0 87.3 78'
      
      
      
    >
      <path
        d='m6.6 66.85 3.85 6.65c.8 1.4 1.95 2.5 3.3 3.3l13.75-23.8h-27.5c0 1.55.4 3.1 1.2 4.5z'
        fill='#0066da'
      />
      <path
        d='m43.65 25-13.75-23.8c-1.35.8-2.5 1.9-3.3 3.3l-25.4 44a9.06 9.06 0 0 0 -1.2 4.5h27.5z'
        fill='#00ac47'
      />
      <path
        d='m73.55 76.8c1.35-.8 2.5-1.9 3.3-3.3l1.6-2.75 7.65-13.25c.8-1.4 1.2-2.95 1.2-4.5h-27.502l5.852 11.5z'
        fill='#ea4335'
      />
      <path
        d='m43.65 25 13.75-23.8c-1.35-.8-2.9-1.2-4.5-1.2h-18.5c-1.6 0-3.15.45-4.5 1.2z'
        fill='#00832d'
      />
      <path
        d='m59.8 53h-32.3l-13.75 23.8c1.35.8 2.9 1.2 4.5 1.2h50.8c1.6 0 3.15-.45 4.5-1.2z'
        fill='#2684fc'
      />
      <path
        d='m73.4 26.5-12.7-22c-.8-1.4-1.95-2.5-3.3-3.3l-13.75 23.8 16.15 28h27.45c0-1.55-.4-3.1-1.2-4.5z'
        fill='#ffba00'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com) is Google's cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to store files, synchronize files across devices, and share files with others. As a core component of Google's productivity ecosystem, Google Drive offers robust storage, organization, and collaboration capabilities.

Learn how to integrate the Google Drive tool in Sim to effortlessly pull information from your Drive through your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting Google Drive, setting up data retrieval, and using stored documents and files to enhance automation. Perfect for syncing important data with your agents in real-time.

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cRoRr4b-EAs"
  title="Use the Google Drive tool in Sim"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

With Google Drive, you can:

- **Store files in the cloud**: Upload and access your files from anywhere with internet access
- **Organize content**: Create folders, use color coding, and implement naming conventions
- **Share and collaborate**: Control access permissions and work simultaneously on files
- **Search efficiently**: Find files quickly with Google's powerful search technology
- **Access across devices**: Use Google Drive on desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with other services**: Connect with Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, and third-party applications

In Sim, the Google Drive integration enables your agents to interact directly with your cloud storage programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as file management, content organization, and document workflows. Your agents can upload new files to specific folders, download existing files to process their contents, and list folder contents to navigate your storage structure. This integration bridges the gap between your AI workflows and your document management system, enabling seamless file operations without manual intervention. By connecting Sim with Google Drive, you can automate file-based workflows, manage documents intelligently, and incorporate cloud storage operations into your agent's capabilities.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Google Drive into the workflow. Can create, upload, and list files.



## Tools

### `google_drive_upload`

Upload a file to Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | The name of the file to upload |
| `file` | file | No | Binary file to upload \(UserFile object\) |
| `content` | string | No | Text content to upload \(use this OR file, not both\) |
| `mimeType` | string | No | The MIME type of the file to upload \(auto-detected from file if not provided\) |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to upload the file to |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to upload the file to \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | Uploaded file metadata including ID, name, and links |

### `google_drive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `folderId` | string | No | ID of the parent folder \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | Created folder metadata including ID, name, and parent information |

### `google_drive_list`

List files and folders in Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to list files from \(internal use\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |
| `pageToken` | string | No | The page token to use for pagination |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `files` | json | Array of file metadata objects from the specified folder |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `google_drive`

Commit message:

feat(tools): added download file tool for onedrive, google drive, and slack

apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/google_drive.mdx, after:

---
title: Google Drive
description: Create, upload, and list files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="google_drive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      viewBox='0 0 87.3 78'
      
      
      
    >
      <path
        d='m6.6 66.85 3.85 6.65c.8 1.4 1.95 2.5 3.3 3.3l13.75-23.8h-27.5c0 1.55.4 3.1 1.2 4.5z'
        fill='#0066da'
      />
      <path
        d='m43.65 25-13.75-23.8c-1.35.8-2.5 1.9-3.3 3.3l-25.4 44a9.06 9.06 0 0 0 -1.2 4.5h27.5z'
        fill='#00ac47'
      />
      <path
        d='m73.55 76.8c1.35-.8 2.5-1.9 3.3-3.3l1.6-2.75 7.65-13.25c.8-1.4 1.2-2.95 1.2-4.5h-27.502l5.852 11.5z'
        fill='#ea4335'
      />
      <path
        d='m43.65 25 13.75-23.8c-1.35-.8-2.9-1.2-4.5-1.2h-18.5c-1.6 0-3.15.45-4.5 1.2z'
        fill='#00832d'
      />
      <path
        d='m59.8 53h-32.3l-13.75 23.8c1.35.8 2.9 1.2 4.5 1.2h50.8c1.6 0 3.15-.45 4.5-1.2z'
        fill='#2684fc'
      />
      <path
        d='m73.4 26.5-12.7-22c-.8-1.4-1.95-2.5-3.3-3.3l-13.75 23.8 16.15 28h27.45c0-1.55-.4-3.1-1.2-4.5z'
        fill='#ffba00'
      />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com) is Google's cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to store files, synchronize files across devices, and share files with others. As a core component of Google's productivity ecosystem, Google Drive offers robust storage, organization, and collaboration capabilities.

Learn how to integrate the Google Drive tool in Sim to effortlessly pull information from your Drive through your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting Google Drive, setting up data retrieval, and using stored documents and files to enhance automation. Perfect for syncing important data with your agents in real-time.

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cRoRr4b-EAs"
  title="Use the Google Drive tool in Sim"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

With Google Drive, you can:

- **Store files in the cloud**: Upload and access your files from anywhere with internet access
- **Organize content**: Create folders, use color coding, and implement naming conventions
- **Share and collaborate**: Control access permissions and work simultaneously on files
- **Search efficiently**: Find files quickly with Google's powerful search technology
- **Access across devices**: Use Google Drive on desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with other services**: Connect with Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, and third-party applications

In Sim, the Google Drive integration enables your agents to interact directly with your cloud storage programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as file management, content organization, and document workflows. Your agents can upload new files to specific folders, download existing files to process their contents, and list folder contents to navigate your storage structure. This integration bridges the gap between your AI workflows and your document management system, enabling seamless file operations without manual intervention. By connecting Sim with Google Drive, you can automate file-based workflows, manage documents intelligently, and incorporate cloud storage operations into your agent's capabilities.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Google Drive into the workflow. Can create, upload, and list files.



## Tools

### `google_drive_upload`

Upload a file to Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | The name of the file to upload |
| `file` | file | No | Binary file to upload \(UserFile object\) |
| `content` | string | No | Text content to upload \(use this OR file, not both\) |
| `mimeType` | string | No | The MIME type of the file to upload \(auto-detected from file if not provided\) |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to upload the file to |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to upload the file to \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | Uploaded file metadata including ID, name, and links |

### `google_drive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `folderId` | string | No | ID of the parent folder \(internal use\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | json | Created folder metadata including ID, name, and parent information |

### `google_drive_download`

Download a file from Google Drive (exports Google Workspace files automatically)

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileId` | string | Yes | The ID of the file to download |
| `mimeType` | string | No | The MIME type to export Google Workspace files to \(optional\) |
| `fileName` | string | No | Optional filename override |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | file | Downloaded file stored in execution files |

### `google_drive_list`

List files and folders in Google Drive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `folderId` | string | No | The ID of the folder to list files from \(internal use\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |
| `pageToken` | string | No | The page token to use for pagination |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `files` | json | Array of file metadata objects from the specified folder |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `google_drive`
