apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/onedrive.mdx, before:

---
title: OneDrive
description: Create, upload, and list files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="onedrive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  fill='currentColor' viewBox='0 0 32 32' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'>
      <g>
        <path
          d='M12.20245,11.19292l.00031-.0011,6.71765,4.02379,4.00293-1.68451.00018.00068A6.4768,6.4768,0,0,1,25.5,13c.14764,0,.29358.0067.43878.01639a10.00075,10.00075,0,0,0-18.041-3.01381C7.932,10.00215,7.9657,10,8,10A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,1,12.20245,11.19292Z'
          fill='#0364b8'
        />
        <path
          d='M12.20276,11.19182l-.00031.0011A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,0,8,10c-.0343,0-.06805.00215-.10223.00258A7.99676,7.99676,0,0,0,1.43732,22.57277l5.924-2.49292,2.63342-1.10819,5.86353-2.46746,3.06213-1.28859Z'
          fill='#0078d4'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.93878,13.01639C25.79358,13.0067,25.64764,13,25.5,13a6.4768,6.4768,0,0,0-2.57648.53178l-.00018-.00068-4.00293,1.68451,1.16077.69528L23.88611,18.19l1.66009.99438,5.67633,3.40007a6.5002,6.5002,0,0,0-5.28375-9.56805Z'
          fill='#1490df'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.5462,19.18437,23.88611,18.19l-3.80493-2.2791-1.16077-.69528L15.85828,16.5042,9.99475,18.97166,7.36133,20.07985l-5.924,2.49292A7.98889,7.98889,0,0,0,8,26H25.5a6.49837,6.49837,0,0,0,5.72253-3.41556Z'
          fill='#28a8ea'
        />
      </g>
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) is Microsoft’s cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to securely store, access, and share files across devices. Integrated deeply into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem, OneDrive supports seamless collaboration, version control, and real-time access to content across teams and organizations.

Learn how to integrate the OneDrive tool in Sim to automatically pull, manage, and organize your cloud files within your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting OneDrive, setting up file access, and using stored content to power automation. Ideal for syncing essential documents and media with your agents in real time.

With OneDrive, you can:

- **Store files securely in the cloud**: Upload and access documents, images, and other files from any device
- **Organize your content**: Create structured folders and manage file versions with ease
- **Collaborate in real time**: Share files, edit them simultaneously with others, and track changes
- **Access across devices**: Use OneDrive from desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams
- **Control permissions**: Share files and folders with custom access settings and expiration controls

In Sim, the OneDrive integration enables your agents to directly interact with your cloud storage. Agents can upload new files to specific folders, retrieve and read existing files, and list folder contents to dynamically organize and access information. This integration allows your agents to incorporate file operations into intelligent workflows — automating document intake, content analysis, and structured storage management. By connecting Sim with OneDrive, you empower your agents to manage and use cloud documents programmatically, eliminating manual steps and enhancing automation with secure, real-time file access.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate OneDrive into the workflow. Can create text and Excel files, upload files, and list files.



## Tools

### `onedrive_upload`

Upload a file to OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | The name of the file to upload |
| `file` | file | No | The file to upload \(binary\) |
| `content` | string | No | The text content to upload \(if no file is provided\) |
| `mimeType` | string | No | The MIME type of the file to create \(e.g., text/plain for .txt, application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet for .xlsx\) |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to upload the file to |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | Manually entered folder ID \(advanced mode\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether the file was uploaded successfully |
| `file` | object | The uploaded file object with metadata including id, name, webViewLink, webContentLink, and timestamps |

### `onedrive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | Manually entered parent folder ID \(advanced mode\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether the folder was created successfully |
| `file` | object | The created folder object with metadata including id, name, webViewLink, and timestamps |

### `onedrive_download`

Download a file from OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileId` | string | Yes | The ID of the file to download |
| `fileName` | string | No | Optional filename override |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | file | Downloaded file stored in execution files |

### `onedrive_list`

List files and folders in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | The manually entered folder ID \(advanced mode\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether files were listed successfully |
| `files` | array | Array of file and folder objects with metadata |
| `nextPageToken` | string | Token for retrieving the next page of results \(optional\) |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `onedrive`

Commit message:

added onedrive delete, fixed jira tools

apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/onedrive.mdx, after:

---
title: OneDrive
description: Create, upload, download, list, and delete files
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="onedrive"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"  fill='currentColor' viewBox='0 0 32 32' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'>
      <g>
        <path
          d='M12.20245,11.19292l.00031-.0011,6.71765,4.02379,4.00293-1.68451.00018.00068A6.4768,6.4768,0,0,1,25.5,13c.14764,0,.29358.0067.43878.01639a10.00075,10.00075,0,0,0-18.041-3.01381C7.932,10.00215,7.9657,10,8,10A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,1,12.20245,11.19292Z'
          fill='#0364b8'
        />
        <path
          d='M12.20276,11.19182l-.00031.0011A7.96073,7.96073,0,0,0,8,10c-.0343,0-.06805.00215-.10223.00258A7.99676,7.99676,0,0,0,1.43732,22.57277l5.924-2.49292,2.63342-1.10819,5.86353-2.46746,3.06213-1.28859Z'
          fill='#0078d4'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.93878,13.01639C25.79358,13.0067,25.64764,13,25.5,13a6.4768,6.4768,0,0,0-2.57648.53178l-.00018-.00068-4.00293,1.68451,1.16077.69528L23.88611,18.19l1.66009.99438,5.67633,3.40007a6.5002,6.5002,0,0,0-5.28375-9.56805Z'
          fill='#1490df'
        />
        <path
          d='M25.5462,19.18437,23.88611,18.19l-3.80493-2.2791-1.16077-.69528L15.85828,16.5042,9.99475,18.97166,7.36133,20.07985l-5.924,2.49292A7.98889,7.98889,0,0,0,8,26H25.5a6.49837,6.49837,0,0,0,5.72253-3.41556Z'
          fill='#28a8ea'
        />
      </g>
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com) is Microsoft’s cloud storage and file synchronization service that allows users to securely store, access, and share files across devices. Integrated deeply into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem, OneDrive supports seamless collaboration, version control, and real-time access to content across teams and organizations.

Learn how to integrate the OneDrive tool in Sim to automatically pull, manage, and organize your cloud files within your workflows. This tutorial walks you through connecting OneDrive, setting up file access, and using stored content to power automation. Ideal for syncing essential documents and media with your agents in real time.

With OneDrive, you can:

- **Store files securely in the cloud**: Upload and access documents, images, and other files from any device
- **Organize your content**: Create structured folders and manage file versions with ease
- **Collaborate in real time**: Share files, edit them simultaneously with others, and track changes
- **Access across devices**: Use OneDrive from desktop, mobile, and web platforms
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Teams
- **Control permissions**: Share files and folders with custom access settings and expiration controls

In Sim, the OneDrive integration enables your agents to directly interact with your cloud storage. Agents can upload new files to specific folders, retrieve and read existing files, and list folder contents to dynamically organize and access information. This integration allows your agents to incorporate file operations into intelligent workflows — automating document intake, content analysis, and structured storage management. By connecting Sim with OneDrive, you empower your agents to manage and use cloud documents programmatically, eliminating manual steps and enhancing automation with secure, real-time file access.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate OneDrive into the workflow. Can create text and Excel files, upload files, download files, list files, and delete files or folders.



## Tools

### `onedrive_upload`

Upload a file to OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileName` | string | Yes | The name of the file to upload |
| `file` | file | No | The file to upload \(binary\) |
| `content` | string | No | The text content to upload \(if no file is provided\) |
| `mimeType` | string | No | The MIME type of the file to create \(e.g., text/plain for .txt, application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet for .xlsx\) |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to upload the file to |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | Manually entered folder ID \(advanced mode\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether the file was uploaded successfully |
| `file` | object | The uploaded file object with metadata including id, name, webViewLink, webContentLink, and timestamps |

### `onedrive_create_folder`

Create a new folder in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderName` | string | Yes | Name of the folder to create |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the parent folder to create the folder in |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | Manually entered parent folder ID \(advanced mode\) |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether the folder was created successfully |
| `file` | object | The created folder object with metadata including id, name, webViewLink, and timestamps |

### `onedrive_download`

Download a file from OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileId` | string | Yes | The ID of the file to download |
| `fileName` | string | No | Optional filename override |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `file` | file | Downloaded file stored in execution files |

### `onedrive_list`

List files and folders in OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folderSelector` | string | No | Select the folder to list files from |
| `manualFolderId` | string | No | The manually entered folder ID \(advanced mode\) |
| `query` | string | No | A query to filter the files |
| `pageSize` | number | No | The number of files to return |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether files were listed successfully |
| `files` | array | Array of file and folder objects with metadata |
| `nextPageToken` | string | Token for retrieving the next page of results \(optional\) |

### `onedrive_delete`

Delete a file or folder from OneDrive

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `fileId` | string | Yes | The ID of the file or folder to delete |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Whether the file was deleted successfully |
| `deleted` | boolean | Confirmation that the file was deleted |
| `fileId` | string | The ID of the deleted file |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `onedrive`
