apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/outlook.mdx, before:

---
title: Outlook
description: Access Outlook
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="outlook"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      version='1.1'
      id='Livello_1'
      x='0px'
      y='0px'
      viewBox='0 0 1831.085 1703.335'
      enableBackground='new 0 0 1831.085 1703.335'
    >
      <path
        fill='#0A2767'
        d='M1831.083,894.25c0.1-14.318-7.298-27.644-19.503-35.131h-0.213l-0.767-0.426l-634.492-375.585  c-2.74-1.851-5.583-3.543-8.517-5.067c-24.498-12.639-53.599-12.639-78.098,0c-2.934,1.525-5.777,3.216-8.517,5.067L446.486,858.693  l-0.766,0.426c-19.392,12.059-25.337,37.556-13.278,56.948c3.553,5.714,8.447,10.474,14.257,13.868l634.492,375.585  c2.749,1.835,5.592,3.527,8.517,5.068c24.498,12.639,53.599,12.639,78.098,0c2.925-1.541,5.767-3.232,8.517-5.068l634.492-375.585  C1823.49,922.545,1831.228,908.923,1831.083,894.25z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#0364B8'
        d='M520.453,643.477h416.38v381.674h-416.38V643.477z M1745.917,255.5V80.908  c1-43.652-33.552-79.862-77.203-80.908H588.204C544.552,1.046,510,37.256,511,80.908V255.5l638.75,170.333L1745.917,255.5z'
      />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M511,255.5h425.833v383.25H511V255.5z' />
      <path
        fill='#28A8EA'
        d='M1362.667,255.5H936.833v383.25L1362.667,1022h383.25V638.75L1362.667,255.5z'
      />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M936.833,638.75h425.833V1022H936.833V638.75z' />
      <path fill='#0364B8' d='M936.833,1022h425.833v383.25H936.833V1022z' />
      <path fill='#14447D' d='M520.453,1025.151h416.38v346.969h-416.38V1025.151z' />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M1362.667,1022h383.25v383.25h-383.25V1022z' />
      <linearGradient
        id='SVGID_1_'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='1128.4584'
        y1='811.0833'
        x2='1128.4584'
        y2='1.9982'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 1705.3334)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' style={{ stopColor: '#35B8F1' }} />
        <stop offset='1' style={{ stopColor: '#28A8EA' }} />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#SVGID_1_)'
        d='M1811.58,927.593l-0.809,0.426l-634.492,356.848c-2.768,1.703-5.578,3.321-8.517,4.769  c-10.777,5.132-22.481,8.029-34.407,8.517l-34.663-20.27c-2.929-1.47-5.773-3.105-8.517-4.897L447.167,906.003h-0.298  l-21.036-11.753v722.384c0.328,48.196,39.653,87.006,87.849,86.7h1230.914c0.724,0,1.363-0.341,2.129-0.341  c10.18-0.651,20.216-2.745,29.808-6.217c4.145-1.756,8.146-3.835,11.966-6.217c2.853-1.618,7.75-5.152,7.75-5.152  c21.814-16.142,34.726-41.635,34.833-68.772V894.25C1831.068,908.067,1823.616,920.807,1811.58,927.593z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.5'
        fill='#0A2767'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1797.017,891.397v44.287l-663.448,456.791L446.699,906.301  c0-0.235-0.191-0.426-0.426-0.426l0,0l-63.023-37.899v-31.938l25.976-0.426l54.932,31.512l1.277,0.426l4.684,2.981  c0,0,645.563,368.346,647.267,369.197l24.698,14.478c2.129-0.852,4.258-1.703,6.813-2.555  c1.278-0.852,640.879-360.681,640.879-360.681L1797.017,891.397z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#1490DF'
        d='M1811.58,927.593l-0.809,0.468l-634.492,356.848c-2.768,1.703-5.578,3.321-8.517,4.769  c-24.641,12.038-53.457,12.038-78.098,0c-2.918-1.445-5.76-3.037-8.517-4.769L446.657,928.061l-0.766-0.468  c-12.25-6.642-19.93-19.409-20.057-33.343v722.384c0.305,48.188,39.616,87.004,87.803,86.7c0.001,0,0.002,0,0.004,0h1229.636  c48.188,0.307,87.5-38.509,87.807-86.696c0-0.001,0-0.002,0-0.004V894.25C1831.068,908.067,1823.616,920.807,1811.58,927.593z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.1'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1185.52,1279.629l-9.496,5.323c-2.752,1.752-5.595,3.359-8.517,4.812  c-10.462,5.135-21.838,8.146-33.47,8.857l241.405,285.479l421.107,101.476c11.539-8.716,20.717-20.178,26.7-33.343L1185.52,1279.629  z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.05'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1228.529,1255.442l-52.505,29.51c-2.752,1.752-5.595,3.359-8.517,4.812  c-10.462,5.135-21.838,8.146-33.47,8.857l113.101,311.838l549.538,74.989c21.649-16.254,34.394-41.743,34.407-68.815v-9.326  L1228.529,1255.442z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#28A8EA'
        d='M514.833,1703.333h1228.316c18.901,0.096,37.335-5.874,52.59-17.033l-697.089-408.331  c-2.929-1.47-5.773-3.105-8.517-4.897L447.125,906.088h-0.298l-20.993-11.838v719.914  C425.786,1663.364,465.632,1703.286,514.833,1703.333C514.832,1703.333,514.832,1703.333,514.833,1703.333z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.1'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1022,418.722v908.303c-0.076,31.846-19.44,60.471-48.971,72.392  c-9.148,3.931-19,5.96-28.957,5.962H425.833V383.25H511v-42.583h433.073C987.092,340.83,1021.907,375.702,1022,418.722z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M979.417,461.305v908.302c0.107,10.287-2.074,20.469-6.388,29.808  c-11.826,29.149-40.083,48.273-71.54,48.417H425.833V383.25h475.656c12.356-0.124,24.533,2.958,35.344,8.943  C962.937,405.344,979.407,432.076,979.417,461.305z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M979.417,461.305v823.136c-0.208,43-34.928,77.853-77.927,78.225H425.833V383.25  h475.656c12.356-0.124,24.533,2.958,35.344,8.943C962.937,405.344,979.407,432.076,979.417,461.305z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M936.833,461.305v823.136c-0.046,43.067-34.861,78.015-77.927,78.225H425.833  V383.25h433.072c43.062,0.023,77.951,34.951,77.927,78.013C936.833,461.277,936.833,461.291,936.833,461.305z'
      />
      <linearGradient
        id='SVGID_2_'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='162.7469'
        y1='1383.0741'
        x2='774.0864'
        y2='324.2592'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 1705.3334)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' style={{ stopColor: '#1784D9' }} />
        <stop offset='0.5' style={{ stopColor: '#107AD5' }} />
        <stop offset='1' style={{ stopColor: '#0A63C9' }} />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#SVGID_2_)'
        d='M78.055,383.25h780.723c43.109,0,78.055,34.947,78.055,78.055v780.723  c0,43.109-34.946,78.055-78.055,78.055H78.055c-43.109,0-78.055-34.947-78.055-78.055V461.305  C0,418.197,34.947,383.25,78.055,383.25z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#FFFFFF'
        d='M243.96,710.631c19.238-40.988,50.29-75.289,89.17-98.495c43.057-24.651,92.081-36.94,141.675-35.515  c45.965-0.997,91.321,10.655,131.114,33.683c37.414,22.312,67.547,55.004,86.742,94.109c20.904,43.09,31.322,90.512,30.405,138.396  c1.013,50.043-9.706,99.628-31.299,144.783c-19.652,40.503-50.741,74.36-89.425,97.388c-41.327,23.734-88.367,35.692-136.011,34.578  c-46.947,1.133-93.303-10.651-134.01-34.067c-37.738-22.341-68.249-55.07-87.892-94.28c-21.028-42.467-31.57-89.355-30.745-136.735  C212.808,804.859,223.158,755.686,243.96,710.631z M339.006,941.858c10.257,25.912,27.651,48.385,50.163,64.812  c22.93,16.026,50.387,24.294,78.353,23.591c29.783,1.178,59.14-7.372,83.634-24.358c22.227-16.375,39.164-38.909,48.715-64.812  c10.677-28.928,15.946-59.572,15.543-90.404c0.33-31.127-4.623-62.084-14.649-91.554c-8.855-26.607-25.246-50.069-47.182-67.537  c-23.88-17.79-53.158-26.813-82.91-25.55c-28.572-0.74-56.644,7.593-80.184,23.804c-22.893,16.496-40.617,39.168-51.1,65.365  c-23.255,60.049-23.376,126.595-0.341,186.728L339.006,941.858z'
      />
      <path fill='#50D9FF' d='M1362.667,255.5h383.25v383.25h-383.25V255.5z' />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Microsoft Outlook](https://outlook.office365.com) is a comprehensive email and calendar platform that helps users manage communications, schedules, and tasks efficiently. As part of Microsoft's productivity suite, Outlook offers robust tools for sending and organizing emails, coordinating meetings, and integrating seamlessly with Microsoft 365 applications — enabling individuals and teams to stay organized and connected across devices.

With Microsoft Outlook, you can:

- **Send and receive emails**: Communicate clearly and professionally with individuals or distribution lists  
- **Manage calendars and events**: Schedule meetings, set reminders, and view availability  
- **Organize your inbox**: Use folders, categories, and rules to keep your email streamlined  
- **Access contacts and tasks**: Keep track of key people and action items in one place  
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, Teams, and other Microsoft apps  
- **Access across devices**: Use Outlook on desktop, web, and mobile with real-time sync  
- **Maintain privacy and security**: Leverage enterprise-grade encryption and compliance controls

In Sim, the Microsoft Outlook integration enables your agents to interact directly with email and calendar data programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as sending custom email updates, parsing incoming messages for workflow triggers, creating calendar events, and managing task reminders. By connecting Sim with Microsoft Outlook, you enable intelligent agents to automate communications, streamline scheduling, and maintain visibility into organizational correspondence — all within your workflow ecosystem.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Outlook into the workflow. Can read, draft, and send email messages. Can be used in trigger mode to trigger a workflow when a new email is received.



## Tools

### `outlook_send`

Send emails using Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address |
| `subject` | string | Yes | Email subject |
| `body` | string | Yes | Email body content |
| `replyToMessageId` | string | No | Message ID to reply to \(for threading\) |
| `conversationId` | string | No | Conversation ID for threading |
| `cc` | string | No | CC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `bcc` | string | No | BCC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `attachments` | file[] | No | Files to attach to the email |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Email send success status |
| `status` | string | Delivery status of the email |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp when email was sent |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |

### `outlook_draft`

Draft emails using Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address |
| `subject` | string | Yes | Email subject |
| `body` | string | Yes | Email body content |
| `cc` | string | No | CC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `bcc` | string | No | BCC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `attachments` | file[] | No | Files to attach to the email draft |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Email draft creation success status |
| `messageId` | string | Unique identifier for the drafted email |
| `status` | string | Draft status of the email |
| `subject` | string | Subject of the drafted email |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp when draft was created |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |

### `outlook_read`

Read emails from Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folder` | string | No | Folder ID to read emails from \(default: Inbox\) |
| `maxResults` | number | No | Maximum number of emails to retrieve \(default: 1, max: 10\) |
| `includeAttachments` | boolean | No | Download and include email attachments |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Success or status message |
| `results` | array | Array of email message objects |
| `attachments` | file[] | All email attachments flattened from all emails |

### `outlook_forward`

Forward an existing Outlook message to specified recipients

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `messageId` | string | Yes | The ID of the message to forward |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address\(es\), comma-separated |
| `comment` | string | No | Optional comment to include with the forwarded message |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |
| `results` | object | Delivery result details |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `outlook`

Commit message:

added gmail & outlook move tools, added missing credentials descriptions to modal

apps/docs/content/docs/en/tools/outlook.mdx, after:

---
title: Outlook
description: Send, read, draft, forward, and move Outlook email messages
---

import { BlockInfoCard } from "@/components/ui/block-info-card"

<BlockInfoCard 
  type="outlook"
  color="#E0E0E0"
  icon={true}
  iconSvg={`<svg className="block-icon"
      
      xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      version='1.1'
      id='Livello_1'
      x='0px'
      y='0px'
      viewBox='0 0 1831.085 1703.335'
      enableBackground='new 0 0 1831.085 1703.335'
    >
      <path
        fill='#0A2767'
        d='M1831.083,894.25c0.1-14.318-7.298-27.644-19.503-35.131h-0.213l-0.767-0.426l-634.492-375.585  c-2.74-1.851-5.583-3.543-8.517-5.067c-24.498-12.639-53.599-12.639-78.098,0c-2.934,1.525-5.777,3.216-8.517,5.067L446.486,858.693  l-0.766,0.426c-19.392,12.059-25.337,37.556-13.278,56.948c3.553,5.714,8.447,10.474,14.257,13.868l634.492,375.585  c2.749,1.835,5.592,3.527,8.517,5.068c24.498,12.639,53.599,12.639,78.098,0c2.925-1.541,5.767-3.232,8.517-5.068l634.492-375.585  C1823.49,922.545,1831.228,908.923,1831.083,894.25z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#0364B8'
        d='M520.453,643.477h416.38v381.674h-416.38V643.477z M1745.917,255.5V80.908  c1-43.652-33.552-79.862-77.203-80.908H588.204C544.552,1.046,510,37.256,511,80.908V255.5l638.75,170.333L1745.917,255.5z'
      />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M511,255.5h425.833v383.25H511V255.5z' />
      <path
        fill='#28A8EA'
        d='M1362.667,255.5H936.833v383.25L1362.667,1022h383.25V638.75L1362.667,255.5z'
      />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M936.833,638.75h425.833V1022H936.833V638.75z' />
      <path fill='#0364B8' d='M936.833,1022h425.833v383.25H936.833V1022z' />
      <path fill='#14447D' d='M520.453,1025.151h416.38v346.969h-416.38V1025.151z' />
      <path fill='#0078D4' d='M1362.667,1022h383.25v383.25h-383.25V1022z' />
      <linearGradient
        id='SVGID_1_'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='1128.4584'
        y1='811.0833'
        x2='1128.4584'
        y2='1.9982'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 1705.3334)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' style={{ stopColor: '#35B8F1' }} />
        <stop offset='1' style={{ stopColor: '#28A8EA' }} />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#SVGID_1_)'
        d='M1811.58,927.593l-0.809,0.426l-634.492,356.848c-2.768,1.703-5.578,3.321-8.517,4.769  c-10.777,5.132-22.481,8.029-34.407,8.517l-34.663-20.27c-2.929-1.47-5.773-3.105-8.517-4.897L447.167,906.003h-0.298  l-21.036-11.753v722.384c0.328,48.196,39.653,87.006,87.849,86.7h1230.914c0.724,0,1.363-0.341,2.129-0.341  c10.18-0.651,20.216-2.745,29.808-6.217c4.145-1.756,8.146-3.835,11.966-6.217c2.853-1.618,7.75-5.152,7.75-5.152  c21.814-16.142,34.726-41.635,34.833-68.772V894.25C1831.068,908.067,1823.616,920.807,1811.58,927.593z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.5'
        fill='#0A2767'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1797.017,891.397v44.287l-663.448,456.791L446.699,906.301  c0-0.235-0.191-0.426-0.426-0.426l0,0l-63.023-37.899v-31.938l25.976-0.426l54.932,31.512l1.277,0.426l4.684,2.981  c0,0,645.563,368.346,647.267,369.197l24.698,14.478c2.129-0.852,4.258-1.703,6.813-2.555  c1.278-0.852,640.879-360.681,640.879-360.681L1797.017,891.397z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#1490DF'
        d='M1811.58,927.593l-0.809,0.468l-634.492,356.848c-2.768,1.703-5.578,3.321-8.517,4.769  c-24.641,12.038-53.457,12.038-78.098,0c-2.918-1.445-5.76-3.037-8.517-4.769L446.657,928.061l-0.766-0.468  c-12.25-6.642-19.93-19.409-20.057-33.343v722.384c0.305,48.188,39.616,87.004,87.803,86.7c0.001,0,0.002,0,0.004,0h1229.636  c48.188,0.307,87.5-38.509,87.807-86.696c0-0.001,0-0.002,0-0.004V894.25C1831.068,908.067,1823.616,920.807,1811.58,927.593z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.1'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1185.52,1279.629l-9.496,5.323c-2.752,1.752-5.595,3.359-8.517,4.812  c-10.462,5.135-21.838,8.146-33.47,8.857l241.405,285.479l421.107,101.476c11.539-8.716,20.717-20.178,26.7-33.343L1185.52,1279.629  z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.05'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1228.529,1255.442l-52.505,29.51c-2.752,1.752-5.595,3.359-8.517,4.812  c-10.462,5.135-21.838,8.146-33.47,8.857l113.101,311.838l549.538,74.989c21.649-16.254,34.394-41.743,34.407-68.815v-9.326  L1228.529,1255.442z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#28A8EA'
        d='M514.833,1703.333h1228.316c18.901,0.096,37.335-5.874,52.59-17.033l-697.089-408.331  c-2.929-1.47-5.773-3.105-8.517-4.897L447.125,906.088h-0.298l-20.993-11.838v719.914  C425.786,1663.364,465.632,1703.286,514.833,1703.333C514.832,1703.333,514.832,1703.333,514.833,1703.333z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.1'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M1022,418.722v908.303c-0.076,31.846-19.44,60.471-48.971,72.392  c-9.148,3.931-19,5.96-28.957,5.962H425.833V383.25H511v-42.583h433.073C987.092,340.83,1021.907,375.702,1022,418.722z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M979.417,461.305v908.302c0.107,10.287-2.074,20.469-6.388,29.808  c-11.826,29.149-40.083,48.273-71.54,48.417H425.833V383.25h475.656c12.356-0.124,24.533,2.958,35.344,8.943  C962.937,405.344,979.407,432.076,979.417,461.305z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M979.417,461.305v823.136c-0.208,43-34.928,77.853-77.927,78.225H425.833V383.25  h475.656c12.356-0.124,24.533,2.958,35.344,8.943C962.937,405.344,979.407,432.076,979.417,461.305z'
      />
      <path
        opacity='0.2'
        enableBackground='new    '
        d='M936.833,461.305v823.136c-0.046,43.067-34.861,78.015-77.927,78.225H425.833  V383.25h433.072c43.062,0.023,77.951,34.951,77.927,78.013C936.833,461.277,936.833,461.291,936.833,461.305z'
      />
      <linearGradient
        id='SVGID_2_'
        gradientUnits='userSpaceOnUse'
        x1='162.7469'
        y1='1383.0741'
        x2='774.0864'
        y2='324.2592'
        gradientTransform='matrix(1 0 0 -1 0 1705.3334)'
      >
        <stop offset='0' style={{ stopColor: '#1784D9' }} />
        <stop offset='0.5' style={{ stopColor: '#107AD5' }} />
        <stop offset='1' style={{ stopColor: '#0A63C9' }} />
      </linearGradient>
      <path
        fill='url(#SVGID_2_)'
        d='M78.055,383.25h780.723c43.109,0,78.055,34.947,78.055,78.055v780.723  c0,43.109-34.946,78.055-78.055,78.055H78.055c-43.109,0-78.055-34.947-78.055-78.055V461.305  C0,418.197,34.947,383.25,78.055,383.25z'
      />
      <path
        fill='#FFFFFF'
        d='M243.96,710.631c19.238-40.988,50.29-75.289,89.17-98.495c43.057-24.651,92.081-36.94,141.675-35.515  c45.965-0.997,91.321,10.655,131.114,33.683c37.414,22.312,67.547,55.004,86.742,94.109c20.904,43.09,31.322,90.512,30.405,138.396  c1.013,50.043-9.706,99.628-31.299,144.783c-19.652,40.503-50.741,74.36-89.425,97.388c-41.327,23.734-88.367,35.692-136.011,34.578  c-46.947,1.133-93.303-10.651-134.01-34.067c-37.738-22.341-68.249-55.07-87.892-94.28c-21.028-42.467-31.57-89.355-30.745-136.735  C212.808,804.859,223.158,755.686,243.96,710.631z M339.006,941.858c10.257,25.912,27.651,48.385,50.163,64.812  c22.93,16.026,50.387,24.294,78.353,23.591c29.783,1.178,59.14-7.372,83.634-24.358c22.227-16.375,39.164-38.909,48.715-64.812  c10.677-28.928,15.946-59.572,15.543-90.404c0.33-31.127-4.623-62.084-14.649-91.554c-8.855-26.607-25.246-50.069-47.182-67.537  c-23.88-17.79-53.158-26.813-82.91-25.55c-28.572-0.74-56.644,7.593-80.184,23.804c-22.893,16.496-40.617,39.168-51.1,65.365  c-23.255,60.049-23.376,126.595-0.341,186.728L339.006,941.858z'
      />
      <path fill='#50D9FF' d='M1362.667,255.5h383.25v383.25h-383.25V255.5z' />
    </svg>`}
/>

{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-START:intro */}
[Microsoft Outlook](https://outlook.office365.com) is a comprehensive email and calendar platform that helps users manage communications, schedules, and tasks efficiently. As part of Microsoft's productivity suite, Outlook offers robust tools for sending and organizing emails, coordinating meetings, and integrating seamlessly with Microsoft 365 applications — enabling individuals and teams to stay organized and connected across devices.

With Microsoft Outlook, you can:

- **Send and receive emails**: Communicate clearly and professionally with individuals or distribution lists  
- **Manage calendars and events**: Schedule meetings, set reminders, and view availability  
- **Organize your inbox**: Use folders, categories, and rules to keep your email streamlined  
- **Access contacts and tasks**: Keep track of key people and action items in one place  
- **Integrate with Microsoft 365**: Work seamlessly with Word, Excel, Teams, and other Microsoft apps  
- **Access across devices**: Use Outlook on desktop, web, and mobile with real-time sync  
- **Maintain privacy and security**: Leverage enterprise-grade encryption and compliance controls

In Sim, the Microsoft Outlook integration enables your agents to interact directly with email and calendar data programmatically. This allows for powerful automation scenarios such as sending custom email updates, parsing incoming messages for workflow triggers, creating calendar events, and managing task reminders. By connecting Sim with Microsoft Outlook, you enable intelligent agents to automate communications, streamline scheduling, and maintain visibility into organizational correspondence — all within your workflow ecosystem.
{/* MANUAL-CONTENT-END */}


## Usage Instructions

Integrate Outlook into the workflow. Can read, draft, send, forward, and move email messages. Can be used in trigger mode to trigger a workflow when a new email is received.



## Tools

### `outlook_send`

Send emails using Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address |
| `subject` | string | Yes | Email subject |
| `body` | string | Yes | Email body content |
| `replyToMessageId` | string | No | Message ID to reply to \(for threading\) |
| `conversationId` | string | No | Conversation ID for threading |
| `cc` | string | No | CC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `bcc` | string | No | BCC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `attachments` | file[] | No | Files to attach to the email |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Email send success status |
| `status` | string | Delivery status of the email |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp when email was sent |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |

### `outlook_draft`

Draft emails using Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address |
| `subject` | string | Yes | Email subject |
| `body` | string | Yes | Email body content |
| `cc` | string | No | CC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `bcc` | string | No | BCC recipients \(comma-separated\) |
| `attachments` | file[] | No | Files to attach to the email draft |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Email draft creation success status |
| `messageId` | string | Unique identifier for the drafted email |
| `status` | string | Draft status of the email |
| `subject` | string | Subject of the drafted email |
| `timestamp` | string | Timestamp when draft was created |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |

### `outlook_read`

Read emails from Outlook

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `folder` | string | No | Folder ID to read emails from \(default: Inbox\) |
| `maxResults` | number | No | Maximum number of emails to retrieve \(default: 1, max: 10\) |
| `includeAttachments` | boolean | No | Download and include email attachments |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Success or status message |
| `results` | array | Array of email message objects |
| `attachments` | file[] | All email attachments flattened from all emails |

### `outlook_forward`

Forward an existing Outlook message to specified recipients

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `messageId` | string | Yes | The ID of the message to forward |
| `to` | string | Yes | Recipient email address\(es\), comma-separated |
| `comment` | string | No | Optional comment to include with the forwarded message |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |
| `results` | object | Delivery result details |

### `outlook_move`

Move emails between Outlook folders

#### Input

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `messageId` | string | Yes | ID of the message to move |
| `destinationId` | string | Yes | ID of the destination folder |

#### Output

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| `success` | boolean | Email move success status |
| `message` | string | Success or error message |
| `messageId` | string | ID of the moved message |
| `newFolderId` | string | ID of the destination folder |



## Notes

- Category: `tools`
- Type: `outlook`
